# Master-Thesis
This project highlights the code used in my Master's Thesis. The thesis focused on using machine learning to evalute the impact of influencers on product returns of online stores.

The Abstract of the thesis is as follows:
The topic of sustainability is one of importance to many companies that aim to adapt their business practices to align with the green transition. One key factor relating to sustainability that has a lot of room for improvement is the frequency of product returns in the retail industry. Product returns are not only detrimental in relation to profits with returns costing an average of 59% of the original sales price (Chaturvedi, 2022), they also leave a significant impact on the environment with product returns accounting for 27 million tons of CO2 emissions yearly (Chaturvedi, 2022). In order to effectively analyse the reasons behind product returns, it is important to investigate how companies promote their products to customers. Many businesses make use of social media influencers in order to promote their products, therefore it is of interest to investigate the impacts these social media influencers have on the reasons for product returns, and how this information can be utilised to develop a sustainability framework. In order to investigate the impact of influencers on product returns, data on purchases from an online e-commerce platform was linked to promotional discount codes unique to different influencers. The e-commerce influencer data was then put through an XGBoost machine learning model and text analytics techniques with the goal of understanding the various aspects of influencers that lead to a product return. The central research question was: To what extent can machine learning models promote sustainable influencer marketing. The results from the XGBoost machine learning model indicated that the amount of followers, following, and posts that an influencer has are important in determining the return reason of an item, while the text analytical models highlighted the importance of value, quality, and discounts in determining the return reason. The results of the XGBoost and text analytics models were combined into a sustainability framework that can aid companies in choosing influencers to promote their products which will lead to the lowest amount of product returns and subsequently reduce the environmental footprint of the company. 
